_This feature available only in [Redisson PRO](https://redisson.pro) edition._

### 1. Partitioning (sharding) of Redis based Java objects

All Redisson Java objects are Redis cluster compatible, but their state aren't scaled/partitioned to multiple Redis master nodes in cluster. [Redisson PRO](https://redisson.pro/) offers data partitioning for some of them. This feature gives few advantages:  
1. State of single Redisson object evenly distributed across Redis master nodes instead of single master node. This allows to avoid Redis OutOfMemory problem.  
2. Scaling read/write operations to all Redis master nodes.  

Redisson splits data to **231 partitions by default**. Minimal number of partition is **3**. Partitions are uniformly distributed across all Redis cluster nodes. This means that each node contains nearly equal amount of partitions. For default partitions amount (231) and 4 master nodes in Redis cluster, each node contains nearly 57 data partitions. 46 data partitions per node for 5 master nodes cluster and so on. This feature achieved thanks to special slot distribution algorithm used in Redisson.

Data partitioning supported for [Set](./7.-distributed-collections/#732-set-data-partitioning), [Map](./7.-distributed-collections/#714-map-data-partitioning), [BitSet](./6.-Distributed-objects/#641-bitset-data-partitioning),   [Bloom filter](./6.-Distributed-objects#681-bloom-filter-data-partitioning), [Spring Cache](./14.-Integration-with-frameworks/#1421-spring-cache-local-cache-and-data-partitioning), [Hibernate Cache](./14.-Integration-with-frameworks#1431-hibernate-cache-local-cache-and-data-partitioning), [JCache](https://github.com/redisson/redisson/wiki/14.-Integration-with-frameworks#1442-jcache-api-local-cache-and-data-partitioning) and [Micronaut Cache](https://github.com/redisson/redisson/tree/master/redisson-micronaut#22-cache-settings) structures.

### 2. Partitioning (sharding) of Redis setup

Multiple Redis setups with limited amount of memory could be joined and used as a single partitioned (sharded) Redis environment.

```java
RedissonClient redisson1 = ...;
RedissonClient redisson2 = ...;
RedissonClient redisson3 = ...;

RedissonClient redisson = ShardedRedisson.create(redisson1, redisson2, redisson3);
```